# Four Principles of Object-Oriented Programming

1.*Encapsulation* The idea behind encapsulation is that the variables of a class can only be accessed through the method of that class, not from any other class. So in order to access the private variables of a particular class is by invoking the method of that class. So, the method encapsulates the data types of that class. The result of failing to use the idea of Encapsulation is that the data types get read and written from everywhere else, ending up with spaghetti code, meaning a code that is very difficult to understand and therefore very difficult to fix and modify.

2.*Inheritance* The idea behind inheritance is that data types of a class and the class itself can be used by another class. This means that these data types and classes overlap. The class that inherits another class is called the subclass whereas that which is inherited is called the superclass. The benefit of inheritance is that it allows us to use the code in a another class without having to rewrite the same code. Inheritance could be single or multiple. With single inheritance, a class is allowed to inherent one other class only. Multiple inheritance is where a class can inherit from more than one class. Some languages such as Java and C sharp do not allow for multiple inheritance, reason being, say class Kate inherits class Danielle and class Harry both of which have a common data type say String "Jane" the question would be which "Jane" does class Kate inherit? Consequently, this creates confusion and, hence, the need for some rules in the usage of multiple inheritance. Multiple inheritance could, on another hand come useful, allowing us to use multiple classes and combining features into one. One type of inheritance that's definitely not allowed is circular inheritance where classes end up inheriting themselves. It just doesn't make any sense.

3.*Overriding* To override in OPP means to redefine an inherited method. When in an inheritance tree classes contain similar methods, for example, a subclass Linda has a method sleep() similar to a superclass Grace, then class Linda's method shall override that of class Grace since class Linda simply sleeps in her own specific way. Since the method belongs to a specific class, to invoke it we'll pass in an instance argument of the current class followed by the name of the method following the syntax instance.method(argument).

4.*Polymorphism* This idea is dependent on the instance of a particular class. For example, if an inheritance tree contains classes Linda, Dannielle, Grace, Chris and Harry respectively, we can use the object of class Linda to invoke the sleep() method of class Grace. When we want to call the sleep() method of class Harris, we can use the object of class Chris. The actual type of operations is changing based on the types of arguments/instance.
