---
layout: post
title: Javascript
---

**What is Javascript**

Javascript is not java

Javascript is a dynamic computer programming language. It is lightweight and most commonly used as a part of web pages, whose implementations allow client-side script to interact with the user and make dynamic pages. It is an interpreted programming language with object-oriented capabilities.

JavaScript was first known as LiveScript, but Netscape changed its name to JavaScript, possibly because of the excitement being generated by Java. JavaScript made its first appearance in Netscape 2.0 in 1995 with the name LiveScript.

**Advantages of JavaScript**

The merits of using JavaScript are −

Less server interaction − You can validate user input before sending the page off to the server. This saves server traffic, which means less load on your server.

Immediate feedback to the visitors − They don't have to wait for a page reload to see if they have forgotten to enter something.

Increased interactivity − You can create interfaces that react when the user hovers over them with a mouse or activates them via the keyboard.

Richer interfaces − You can use JavaScript to include such items as drag-and-drop components and sliders to give a Rich Interface to your site visitors.

**Limitations of JavaScript**

We cannot treat JavaScript as a full-fledged programming language. It lacks the following important features −

Client-side JavaScript does not allow the reading or writing of files. This has been kept for security reason.

JavaScript cannot be used for networking applications because there is no such support available.

JavaScript doesn't have any multithreading or multiprocessor capabilities.

